BASED ON A TRUE STORY
Ladies and gentlemen...
WELCOME TO LAS VEGAS
you very sensibly
skip the casinos...
ELECTRONICS FAIR
Where you are always at a disadvantage. and come
to the place where it is always prize.
Technology is the future.
and computer games are at the forefront of it.
So come try out the next world hit.
PLAYER 1
Play Go. the Asian favorite.
Rights available everywhere.
except in Japan.
How do you make it?
Go. Go. Go. Playing pot?
It's like playing chess.
But then much more difficult.
Go didn't run so smoothly.
Even my saleswoman got distracted.
And I know how many excuses
bank managers hear every day.
But this is not an excuse. This is an opportunity.
Indeed. this minor setback
was perhaps our greatest windfall.
Yes.
- Tracy.
Tracy. What are you doing?
I invited her over to see
whether our new game is catching on with the ladies.
Come. Tracy.
I'll pay you to sell my game.
Easy. Henk. This game is cool.
What is it called?
- Tetris.
Tetris.
I don't get it.
A combination of 'tetra'.
Greek for "four
All pieces consist of four cubes.
And "tennis.
Tennis?
- Tennis.
Yes. the Russian inventor
apparently likes tennis.
Here. Henk. Try.
Is this written in Pascal or C?
- That's classified.
What do you think?
It was "the most beautiful thing I had ever seen.
- I've heard that before.
No. This is different from Go.
Not comparable.
I've heard that before. too.
- Okay. fine. But. Eddie...
I played Tetris for five minutes.
I still dream about falling cubes now.
This game is more than addictive.
It stays with you.
This is poetry. Art and mathematics
working together enchantingly. It is...
the perfect game.
Why are you telling me that?
Do you have the rights to this?
Mirrorsoft controls all rights
to all platforms. worldwide.
Is Japan available?
You are now sitting across from the licensee
of Tetris in Japan. for the PC....
game consoles...
and gaming halls.
Are you kidding?
So with the money you owe this bank
owed for your failed game
Did you buy another game?
- Correct. But. Eddie. this is different.
Tetris is already a success.
Where.
- In Russia.
Henk.
there is no game business in Russia.
I know. Let me finish.
PLAYER 2
It all started with a man
named Aleksey Leonidovich Pazhitnov....
four years ago.
By day. he was a programmer
at the Soviet Computer Science Center.
But at night
he programmed games for fun.
His computer. a piece of antique
Soviet junk called an Electronika 60...
Didn't even have a video card.
His falling cubes
still consisted of square brackets.
Together with some colleagues. he made
the game compatible with IBM computers.
So color graphics. 8-bit music
and floppies that people copied for free.
MOSKOU
It went off like wildfire.
But don't forget
that this happened in the Soviet Union.
Nothing just comes out.
Before that. an entrepreneur had to
go there himself.
Who?
You?
Jesus. No. I'm not that tapped out.
It was Robert Stein.
PLAYER 3
Two years ago.
Welcome back to Budapest.
As a self-employed person from London
he searched Eastern Europe for games....
which he could
could resell at a profit.
Know already. Boring.
What is this?
- This one is not ours.
COMPUTER SCIENCE CENTER MOSCOW
Stein. That idiot
keeps wasting our fax paper.
What does it say?
He wants the license for my game.
Can I sell that?
We'll just have to check with ELORG.
Yes. you may. Fax it.
WE AGREE
With the license arranged
he went to London. to Robert Maxwell.
PLAYER 4
One year ago...
Mr. Stein. nice to meet you.
Robert Maxwell.
Pleasant.
The Robert Maxwell?
The stone-faced media mogul?
- The one and only.
Okay. Now that's the type of businessman
we bankers are happy with.
Maxwell repays his debts.
Does he do distribution?
Sort of.
This is my son.
I can imagine myself.
PLAYER 5
Kevin Maxwell. director of Mirrorsoft.
Pleasant. Kevin.
Just say "Mr. Maxwell." sir.
Anyway. gentlemen:
in my opinion. we have something to celebrate.
Kevin.
The first computer game
to come through the Iron Curtain.
My old crony Mikhail Gorbachev
must be proud.
We start with licenses
for computer games...
And then video games. arcade games.
board games. the whole lot.
Continue.
Nice. Because you'll never believe
where I was yesterday.
GISTERED
Day. Henk Rogers. Bullet-Proof Software.
I have an appointment
with your director. Hiroshi Yamauchi.
Rogers?
You are not in it.
- Oh. okay. I understand.
Thank you.
May I use your toilet before I go?
On the left?
- Yes.
Okay. thank you.
Hi. I have an appointment with Mr. Yamauchi.
- Mr. Rogers. you can't be here.
Mr. Yamauchi is not here.
I saw him this morning
And his car is outside.
Who is this?
- Day. Henk Rogers. Bullet-Proof Software.
Not bad.
- Really?
We buy it for 500.000.
Five hundred grand?
Henk. I'll buy you a drink.
I declined.
You have what?
Are you out of your mind?
- I have bigger ambitions. Eddie.
That's why I'm here.
I'll bring it out
and pay all the start-up costs.
We do something like that ourselves.
We don't use outside partners.
You don't do that often. that's right.
But you make exceptions.
Because you also know that partners help
to achieve great things.
That's why Mario has Luigi.
That's why Zelda has Link.
That's why Mike Tyson...
the one guy he hits in Punch-Out...
We want 200.000 cassettes.
Do you want two million dollars?
- Well no.
I was already startled.
I need three million.
Is that the joke? You want money from me?
How do you come up with three million?
I need two million
for Nintendo cassettes...
GAME COMPUTER
And one million for arcade cabinets.
I have the rights for that too. don't I?
CUT IN
Video arcades work with cash.
That's fast. That's fine for us.
This is the opportunity of a lifetime. Eddie.
Nintendo let me publish it.
Nintendo. This is a gold mine.
Are you really that convinced?
- Yes. Of course.
Then I'll raise your interest rate.
- Fine.
And I want your house as collateral.
Miss one payment and 'tis ours.
Fine.
Don't you want to discuss that with your wife?
Akemi is the chief financial officer
of our company.
She stands behind it.
TOKIO
MORTGAGE AGREEMENT
This is not what you promised.
True. But you know
how little imagination bankers have.
Pioneers must bet everything.
- Not literally.
Listen.
Has it ever been this quiet before
in our apartment?
Maya?
What do you think?
It's great. can we keep it?
This is going to work. I promise.
Can you deliver on that promise?
If we do this. we are the boss.
So. yes...
I can.
Yoshi.
Itsuko.
People.
As of now. we are a big failure.
As of now. we are a major publisher.
MOSKOU
From bottom to top.
Watch your feet. and then move up.
- Playing tennis in the winter. Impressive.
Valentin Trifonov.
Central Committee. Communist Party.
I wanted to meet the man
who almost destroyed the Soviet Union.
Excuse me?
Your game.
Officials throughout the Soviet Union
played it for hours.
They were no longer doing any work.
We had to write a program
that keeps it off our computers.
I hear that a Westerner
you pay for the license.
Are you already making a profit?
It would be strange if such a popular game
does not make a profit abroad.
Then there is trouble.
Dad. can we continue?
- Hold on.
I'm sorry for the interruption.
Congratulations again.
You have earned it.
Bullet-Proof. with Henk.
- Mr. Rogers?
Kevin Maxwell. director of Mirrorsoft.
Oh. hi. Kevin.
Make that "Mr. Maxwell." sir.
You bought the PC. game console and arcade
rights for Tetris purchased in Japan?
That's right.
We have given Sega
the arcade rights in Japan.
What. When.
I got a deal with your guy in Vegas.
I am not concerned with the details.
I paid.
We signed a contract.
No. no. You have signed.
I haven't yet.
That's why I'm calling.
- This is bullshit. Kevin.
No. "Mr. Maxwell.
- This is bullshit. Mr. Maxwell.
This is how I go bankrupt.
Do you still want those PC and gaming computer privileges?
Yes.
I thought so. too.
We lost the arcade rights.
Hiro-san.
Just stop with that arcade prototype.
Don't worry. all of you.
We still have the gaming rights.
Henk has an appointment with Nintendo.
It will be fine. Okay.
Congratulations.
I wanted to give you your own copy
of Tetris before they sold out.
Thank you.
Do you know.
that everything goes well in Super Mario...
and then all of a sudden
a plant that spits fire at you?
The problem is: Kevin Maxwell
spat fire at us.
I don't have arcade rights. I need a
mushroom to stay alive.
May I please have an advance
on my Nintendo fee?
Mr. Yamauchi would like to introduce you
to his colleagues in Seattle.
We may be able to help you.
Pros.
TOKIO
Okay. guys.
Why don't we go clean up our room
before mom comes home? Yeah.
Next month is my school concert.
I only now know what song I'm singing
And I need to practice.
But I need help.
- Sorry. honey.
Dad needs to prepare
for his business trip.
But I'm looking forward
to your performance. okay?
I have to pack. Come. children. clean up.
The Sanctuary.
Day. Henk Rogers. Bullet-Proof Software.
I'm honored to be here.
- Bye. Henk.
Minoru Arakawa.
director. Nintendo of America.
I know.
- Henk Rogers. Shit.
Welcome. Howard Lincoln.
vice president. legal counsel.
Your cowboy reputation precedes you.
Here. Just sign this.
A confidentiality agreement? Why?
Because only ten people on earth
have seen what you are about to see
and to be honest:
we don't trust you.
8-bit graphics?
Yes. and a brand new Sharp
LR35902 processor of 4.19 megahertz...
with eight KB of internal RAM.
Impressive.
No color screen?
Then he needs eight batteries
and it becomes too expensive.
This provides 30 hours of play time.
for only $89.
What is it called?
It's called a Game Boy.
Try it out.
It comes out in June.
And we want publishers like you to
arrange new games.
So Mario is included?
- Yes. Our best series.
This is programmed in C. right?
How many pixels?
- 160 by 144. How so?
It's not perfect. but this is the idea.
If you want to sell hundreds of thousands of
Game Boys want to sell to children...
Then deliver Mario with it.
But if you want to sell millions of
Game Boys want to sell to anyone...
young and old. all over the world....
Then deliver Tetris with it.
Are you arranging the rights?
LONDON
Hi. I'm Henk Rogers.
I want to speak to Kevin Maxwell.
Do you have an appointment?
- No. It's a surprise.
I am doing my best.
- Don't tell nonsense. You are not doing your best.
No. on a scale of one to "your best
you do even less than zero. Not a damn thing.
The Russians are not stupid.
They know that Tetris sells well.
But they don't want to talk to me
About arcade rights...
until I pay them for the rights
for the computer games.
And I can't do that until you pay me.
Henk Rogers wants to talk to Kevin Maxwell.
- What is he doing here?
Let him in.
- Why?
Then I'll just.
- Sit.
We form a unified whole.
Got it?
Mr. Rogers. What a nice surprise.
Robert Maxwell. of Mirror Group.
Wow. Hi.
If I'm disturbing you. I can...
- Well. no. We were just talking about Tetris.
Robert Stein of Andromeda Software.
And my son...
I can introduce myself. father. Thank you.
Kevin Maxwell. Director of Mirrorsoft.
- We spoke.
By phone.
You sold my arcade rights to Sega.
Well. that worked out well. didn't it?
Before I forget: this is
for the Russians. according to my contract.
A video of the Japanese Tetris.
We appreciate
your bringing it yourself. Mr. Rogers....
but you could have
just sent it.
Yeah. but then I wouldn't have
been able to talk to you about portable Tetris.
Portable?
I just don't know
who controls the rights for that.
U?
Without a doubt.
Yes.
Mr. Stein controls all
exclusive worldwide licensing rights.
So arcades. game consoles.
computers and portable devices.
We license everything through him.
- Fantastic.
Then I want to buy the worldwide rights
to buy portable devices. Today.
Nintendo does not have a portable device.
Why would they have the rights...
- I can't say anything about that.
But I may make on their behalf
make a very generous offer.
We will consider your offer.
- I will take care of this. father.
I haven't said anything yet.
- Indeed.
Have fun still in London.
Goodbye.
You can go. Mr. Stein.
And don't come back
without signed contracts.
Also for portable Tetris. Got it?
We have to pay the Russians.
The Russians don't care about money. kid.
They care about loyalty.
Prime Minister Gorbachev is a friend.
We are publishing his memoirs. We are faithful.
Yes. Father. our pension administrator called...
because a few million was missing
from the workers' pension fund.
We had to review the balance sheet
before the end of the year.
Just a formality.
- So no problem?
Very much not. But Kevin.
we need Tetris. understand?
Mr. Stein.
Mr. Stein. wait a minute.
So what happened there?
- It's complicated.
Do you not master portable rights?
I didn't say that.
I said: it's complicated.
You either master them or you don't. That's not...
- Have you ever been to Moscow?
Ever negotiated with the Russians?
Do you know what it's like to be in a country
where everyone is looking at you?
No. So don't tell me
what is complicated and what is not.
I will pay you $25.000
for the portable rights.
Not so complicated after all. then.
TOKIO
Hello?
- With Howard Lincoln. Nintendo of America.
I just heard that Robert Stein...
sells portable Tetris to Atari
for $100.000.
What?
- Yes. Atari.
You know we hate those jerks.
Now they have
a portable device with our game.
I paid him for those rights.
- What happens?
Will Stein let you choke
and keep the deal to himself?
If so. he is
not only suffocate me.
Are you selling portable Tetris to Atari?
Kevin. Hi.
- Don't call me "Kevin.
We are not friends.
You trade exclusively with Mirrorsoft.
Or have you forgotten your contract?
That contract that entitles me to
compensation for every Tetris sale?
Because I haven't gotten anything yet.
I don't have the portable rights yet.
but give me time.
No. I negotiate directly with the Russians.
We are ready.
Ready?
- Ready.
I don't care. I'm going to Moscow.
Wait.
You can't just go to the Soviet Union.
You need a business visa
and approval needed. Months of work.
I am arranging a tourist visa.
Lying? That's a felony.
Then they can lock you up.
I'll risk it.
- Who are you going to talk to?
A company called ELORG.
You don't have companies there.
They probably belong to the KGB.
Do you guys want that game?
- Yes.
But you want to enter a communist country....
that America still
sees as their greatest enemy.
If you go.
we can't protect you.
Where are you going?
MOSKOU
You are Danish?
- No. Dutch.
You sound American.
I grew up in New York.
but I'm Dutch.
And I live in Japan.
Interpreter?
- No. thank you.
Henk Rogers. Coming to report.
Do you perhaps know where I can find ELORG?
Also called Electronorgtechnica.
A government agency.
The government? Nyet.
'No' as in: you don't know.
or as in: you want...
There is a visitor.
ELORG. Phone number?
Need an interpreter?
- No. thanks.
Interpreter.
- Thank you.
Cab.
All the fish and meat are gone.
Please. You must have something more.
My family is hungry.
I have money.
Take this.
- No. You also have a family.
My family will manage.
- Thank you.
Greetings.
Would you like an escort?
Excuse me?
Escort; noun.
Helper in difficult situations.
Synonym for companion.
Sasha. Interpreter. Pleased to meet you.
Do you want history?
We can go to Stalin's Seven Sisters.
his palaces for the proletariat.
Or art?
We can go to the Pushkin Museum.
Actually. I would especially like to go to ELORG.
I thought you were here on vacation.
So you know it?
Mr. Rogers. you are not in America.
Entering a government building without
invitation is strictly prohibited.
I traveled 7.500 kilometers for this.
I won't let a door stop me.
Papers?
Nikolai Yevgenyevich...
- Yes?
Someone is there for you.
I am listening.
Yes. Hi. Henk Rogers.
From Bullet-Proof Software.
I'm releasing the game console version
of Tetris out in Japan....
and I want the license
for the portable version.
What is that?
Where does it come from?
- Sorry. I don't speak...
Moments.
Sorry. Sasha. but I need you.
Everything will be fine.
This is Sasha. my interpreter.
- Hello. my name is Sasha. I am an interpreter.
I'm Henk Rogers.
I'm releasing Tetris
for Nintendo in Japan.
He asks. "What is Nintendo?
Ha. Funny.
Nintendo is
the most popular game console in the world.
ELORG has never given anyone
licensed game consoles.
Computer only.
That can't be right. Look...
ELORG has sold the license
to Robert Stein of Andromeda.
And Andromeda to Mirrorsoft.
And Mirrorsoft's representative in
Las Vegas again to Bullet-Proof Software.
And that's me.
Mirrorsoft had to send it in.
He did not get a bond.
And this is an illegal copy.
We'd better get going.
Does he think I stole Tetris?
- Correct.
Say I have my whole life
invested in this game.
He is mistaken.
Get out of this government building soon.
Otherwise. your tourist visa will send you to
prison as a fraudster and intruder.
He is not mistaken. he said.
- Is that all he said?
Yes.
Okay. Say I want to set the record straight.
We arrange the game console rights....
and then the portable rights.
Come back tomorrow at 9 a.m.
But I warn you...
- Okay. Great. Thank you.
Thank you.
You're going to... Okay. Thank you.
Now "an international phone booth.
International telephone booths
don't exist in the Soviet Union. Henk.
I have to call home.
You don't get it.
We put our house on the line....
For the game console rights for Tetris.
And now I don't have them?
If I don't take care of this. I'm screwed.
Your hotel has telephones.
- Okay. Good. Come with me.
But you will have to wait. Only
a few connections out of our beautiful country.
How long?
Between eight hours and a week.
- What?
Okay. but they do have
a fax machine at the hotel. right?
Faxes and telexes are
only in government buildings. Henk.
Mr. Rogers. may I speak to you. please?
Do you know who I am?
I do have an inkling.
- Nice.
I assume your interpreter told you....
That foreigners may not enter
be allowed to enter a government building.
Go home. Got it?
Mr. Maxwell. Valentin Trifonov...
Of the Central Committee.
Foreign Trade Department.
Welcome to Russia.
- My father said Gorbachev was coming.
You are not Gorbachev.
- And you are not your father.
You are coming for Tetris?
We'll see what we can arrange.
Morning. Sasha.
Can I possibly
change your mind?
Forget it.
Ready?
This is Aleksey Pazhitnov.
the creator of Tetris.
Wow. really?
- Mr. Rogers...
Mr. Belikov wants you to understand
that he does not trust you.
U... Sorry. these are not my
words. You are a lying thief.
And a terrible cook.
That was a joke.
He doesn't understand.
- I see.
Go on. Mr. Belikov.
Excuse me. who are you?
- Please take a seat.
A more important question is:
who are you. Henk Rogers?
According to your visa. you are a tourist.
You are not. A crime.
It says on yourTetris game
That you have the license. You don't.
Another crime.
So this is my proposal.
You go home and stop the production
of Tetris. Then there is no problem.
If you stay here. there are consequences.
I'm not going home without a deal.
Sorry.
'Sorry' won't save you
in our courts. Mr. Rogers.
Mr. Belikov.
Aleksej.
I wanted to say that your game is great.
Thank you. I speak English.
And I have so many questions.
But first I want to say:
once I resolve this misunderstanding....
and hopefully get the portable rights
I'll make you rich.
Mr. Rogers...
- Please. Call me Henk.
Mr Rogers. I have no right
to make money off my game.
That's criminal.
- No.
That is communism.
If that sucker is a thief.
then lock him up.
Are the other buyers there?
Keep them separate.
We'll give those capitalists
a taste of their own medicine.
If I were a thief. why
would I come to show my game?
Because you want the portable rights.
If I had stolen
and arcade rights had been stolen...
why not the portable rights then?
Mr. Belikov asks
Why you start talking about arcade rights.
I also
bought the Japanese arcade rights...
and then heard that Mirrorsoft
had already sold them to Sega.
Stop. stop. stop.
ELORG has never sold anyone
sold the arcade rights. Henk.
Wait a minute.
So you mean you only sold the rights for
Tetris on the computer?
May I see the contract?
Please. Then I will understand it better.
I don't know if you know....
but Stein and Mirrorsoft...
are selling the game console
and arcade rights for Tetris worldwide.
Mr. Belikov?
I'm Robert Stein.
I come for the contracts
for arcade and portable rights.
Mr. Stein. a moment.
- Hm? What?
Mr. Belikov. How nice that you could come.
Mr. Belikov asks. "What is this?
That looks like Tetris
for the Nintendo in Japan.
I come for the portable rights.
not for that.
Did you sell Tetris games
sold to Henk Rogers?
I run one of
the largest media companies in Europe.
I don't concern myself with trifles.
You're saying you don't know this game?
- No. I'm saying I want to get to the point.
Do you think it's illegal?
- Well. maybe?
Can we talk about portable Tetris?
Tomorrow. please.
- Yes.
Rotten communists.
Okay. I read it. and you are right.
You did not knowingly sell Robert Stein
sold the game console rights.
But here's the thing.
Okay. this is a Nintendo.
And this is a personal computer.
What is the difference?
No keyboard with the Nintendo.
No keyboard at the...
You speak English?
Yes. of course. Listen. I'm sorry.
Robert Stein screwed you over.
But legally...
he didn't rob you.
and so I didn't either.
Next time
you should define "computer" better.
And arcade rights?
- There's nothing about that in that contract.
MUNT INSERT
Stein did steal that one.
What are those worth?
$150.000.
Where does he keep going?
Mr. Belikov.
- No.
Aleksej. we started out wrong.
Would you like to go out to dinner sometime?
- Mr. Rogers. I'm not for sale.
Is article 40
a more careful definition of "personal computer"?
'A personal computer consists of a processor.
monitor. hard drive and keyboard.'
Yes. much better.
- Keyboard.
But this was signed years ago.
What use is that to you?
Oh. you're welcome. you know.
Okay. What's going on?
What is this?
- New contract.
$150.000 for arcade rights?
How did you come up with that amount?
How did Sega get
the arcade rights for Tetris in Japan?
If...
If I sign this contract. then we can
talk about the portable rights. right?
I need an evening
to read this contract.
We are ready for today.
- What about the portable rights?
That's what we're going to
bravely working on that.
Aleksej.
Want a ride?
I have a car.
Can I have a ride?
Where are you from?
I am Dutch. raised in New York.
My parents were Dutch
with Jewish and Indonesian ancestors.
I'm kind of like Eddie Van Halen.
I have no need to chat.
Believe it or not.
but I really want to get to know you.
Not only as a business partner.
but also as a fan.
Come eat at my hotel tonight.
No.
Can I visit you then?
Having a foreigner visit
is a crime here.
So.
just call.
Great.
Thanks for the elevator.
Do you know how long my conversation was?
- About two minutes.
Sir. you need to learn better manners.
You say you don't know this game?
- No. I'm saying I'm on point....
Are you spying on me?
Asshole.
- Take care. Kevin.
Let's go for a walk. Outside. All right?
6 ROSTOVSKAYA PEREVLOK.
7:00 PM.
What are you offering for Tetris?
Exclusive publication rights for...
No. How much money?
Those rights are worth two million
dollars worth. A fair exchange. in other words.
Fair exchange. my lair.
- I beg your pardon?
This is Russia. dammit.
You don't think money is important.
Where are you from?
- What difference does that make?
I myself come from the kraj Stavropol.
My parents were kolkhozes.
You know. Share builders.
They worked 18 hours a day
on a state farm.
The government took everything away from them.
I understood at a very young age:
to be successful in this society....
I needed this. And nothing else.
I didn't get where I am
By other people's help. like you.
So spare me the Bolshevik bullshit.
Communism is dying out.
Soon I will lose my job.
Like you. I want the best deal.
You want bribes?
Is that what you mean?
No. I run an honest business.
No one becomes a billionaire
by staying honest. Mr. Maxwell.
Nor
by trusting corrupt politicians.
If you are looking for a pawn.
you better fuck off.
Have a great day.
100.000 American dollars.
if I get the deal.
No. I'm not asking that.
Boris.
- Stop recording.
800.000.
Half as an advance.
into a Swiss account.
300. and I'll pay
when I have the portable rights.
I will talk to Mr. Rogers. though.
- Henk Rogers has no money.
He works for Nintendo.
and they don't bribe you.
And Robert Stein is too stingy.
so you don't have to threaten him either.
400. Last bid.
Well then.
And Mr. Trifonov?
Kevin doesn't need to know any of this.
Why are we doing this?
You know what happened to your father.
Ever said "no" to an American?
This is meaningless.
Hello.
Hi.
This is Maya. She is ten.
Julie is eight.
Michael. six. Leo is three.
And this is my wife. Akemi.
Met as a student. in Hawaii.
We fell in love
and I went with her to Tokyo.
You have lived in many places.
Yes. actually. it did.
What about you?
- I only lived here.
In Moscow?
- In this apartment.
So. Henk. what do you think of Moscow?
- If I'm being honest?
A little confusing. though.
Russia is a country
that you must learn to love.
Like our literature
is cold and dark on the outside.
But also romantic and animated.
- No one sees that side anymore.
How did you discover Tetris. Henk?
I was at the Electronics Fair in Las Vegas
to sell a game of mine.
Then I saw your husband's....
And picked it.
- Nina.
No. that doesn't matter. I bought it
from a big company that lied to me.
But I want to set the record straight. Because Tetris...
Is just so good.
He is stupid. but honest.
So you design games. Henk?
And I'm a programmer.
Well. lately
I've been doing mostly sales.
Pascal or assembly language?
That's what I wanted to ask you.
I like Pascal.
but mostly work with assembly language.
Never underestimate...
- The power of BASIC.
That was creepy.
Is this it?
The original?
Unbelievable.
May I play sometime?
I don't get this.
Why do multiple rows never disappear?
Because.
I never thought about that.
We should make four rows
should disappear.
"We?
What. yes.
Give it a try. It can't hurt.
Henk?
A higher level means more points.
so you... Sorry.
Almost. But we need something more.
Life is hard. We deserve
To celebrate little things.
I had forgotten how much fun this is.
What?
Away. Be still. Come.
Be still. Quiet.
Good evening. Do you have any salt?
- Salt?
The neighbor.
- Aleksey. please.
What...
- Sorry. Henk. You have to go.
Okay. But only if you come with me.
- What?
We go out once.
But not to a tourist bar.
Show me your side of Moscow.
- Henk. that's not a good idea.
Yes. but sometimes
you have to have flack for the rules.
That is why I am in Moscow.
And I think that's why you invited me
invited me here tonight.
Here it is.
You had something like that in mind. didn't you. Henk?
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Pros.
Do you know these people?
- There are colleagues of mine among them. yes.
Great music.
Well. I myself prefer Mozart
or Russian folk songs.
And not. um...
What did she say?
- "People.
News from the Baltics.
The Estonians are protesting. They demand
independence from the Soviet Union.
We are all
fed up with hypocrisy and professional politicians.
We want freedom.
Freedom of speech.
Freedom of art and expression.
We want Coca-Cola.
And jeans from Levi's.
To this we drink.
Great song.
They know the text.
- Good ideas know no bounds.
Sing along.
- No. no. no.
Come on. Please?
- I don't sing. No.
Come on. How can you still hold back?
Aleksej.
You see. we are not that different.
Thank you for showing me this.
I'm glad for that.
We go home. Cleaning up.
Akemi Rogers?
We are from
the Russian embassy in Tokyo.
Who let you in?
Do you know where your husband is?
Did your husband call you?
If he calls. just tell him
that he needs to come home.
Immediately.
You have beautiful children.
Go home.
And thanks for the Levi's.
Interpreter?
- No. thank you.
What the hell...
Henk.
Thank God. you're fine.
They also searched my apartment.
But I don't get it. I want to help.
Why do they feel so threatened?
You are a foreigner
and want to buy Russian property.
For many people
that is practically treason.
It's just a game.
For you. yes.
But those in power see that
as a first step.
If they allow this. they think
that soon all of Russia will be for sale.
Henk. don't sacrifice everything for this.
I am married.
I didn't want to...
You just have to go.
Good morning. Peter and Dmitri.
Tennis champions.
Are you going to school?
What a good daddy you have.
That he brings you so early
Whereas yesterday he was up so late.
Daddy. who is that?
- English? Impressive.
Your mother is an English teacher. isn't she?
Well. that's a good job.
Reliable income.
Did dad ever tell you
what happened to his father?
No. He should do that then.
Because you know. history
can sometimes just repeat itself.
Mr. Rogers? The international phone
is ready. Three minutes.
Come on. come on. Pick up.
- Hello?
Maya. With Dad.
Are you coming home?
My school concert is soon.
We practiced today...
and the teacher thought
that I sounded like an angel. and....
Maya. I promise I'll come.
but right now I need to talk to your mother.
I also want to talk to you.
- Maya. give it to me.
Henk?
Hi. Call our lawyer. He needs to
fax my Mirrorsoft contract to ELORG....
and draw up a new contract
for portable Tetris.
I'll fill in the details.
ELORG's number is +7 495 442 481.
Okay?
- Henk.
There were Russians at my work.
I had to ask you to come home.
What?
Akemi?
Oh. shit.
You bastard.
Cab.
- Cab.
Why is Henk Rogers here?
Are you trying to play us off against each other?
If you are trying to trick me....
Mr. Stein.
have you read your new contract?
Yes.
I have. It's not fair. You are charging
way too much for the arcade rights.
And why should I re-sign
for the PC rights. which are already mine?
I'll sign. But after that we'll talk
about portable rights. yes?
Okay. Portable. How much?
We will come back.
- No.
Mr. Belikov. with all due respect.
what the hell?
First. one of your people threatens me.
Then you threaten my wife in Japan.
My hotel room will be trashed....
and now I find out
that you are negotiating with Robert Stein.
After all he has done to you?
This doesn't make any sense.
I'm the only honest guy here.
You are all crooks.
You only want money.
I don't understand that. My interpreter is not here.
And where is Aleksej?
Do you think I am the enemy here?
I'm not.
It's not about money anymore.
I want Aleksej to get what he deserves
and I want to show...
That the Soviet Union is more
than missiles and military strength.
What's that?
- Your contract with Mirrorsoft.
That proves that I did not rob you.
And the other is my new offer.
There are no numbers on it.
$25.000 in advance for all portable
rights and 25 cents per copy sold.
$25.000?
Why so little?
To be honest:
I have no money left.
But the fee per copy
is very reasonable.
How many games do you expect to sell?
As a conservative estimate: one million.
But actually I estimate 20 million.
Then you get five million dollars.
Hey. come on.
You guys are champions of cliffhangers.
May I have a word with you?
I have been following your negotiations.
You did an excellent job.
All for the Soviet Union.
Comrade Trifonov.
Nice.
In fact. the government has determined
that Tetris will go to Mirrorsoft.
Good.
Go ahead.
Mr. Be... Oh. jeez. What is he doing here?
Foreign trade
is my department. Mr. Maxwell.
Okay. Mr. Belikov. Mirrorsoft is offering you
the Russian publication rights...
For the Collier's Encyclopedia.
worth two million...
For worldwide portable rights
for Tetris.
And per copy?
- For heaven's sake.
This is the deal of a lifetime.
We are willing to make a deal with you.
Mr. Maxwell. but the times...
Times are changing.
We are accountable
for our choices.
If I choose the bid without a monetary amount.
it says that...
suspicious.
Fine.
All expenditures must be approved
but unofficially I'm offering ELORG
a million. by the end of the week.
And per copy?
- Oh. jesus christ.
Enough.
What did he say?
One million dollars.
Added to statement of intent.
Portable Tetris goes to Mirrorsoft....
provided you remit to us within a week
one million dollars.
Well. gentlemen. it looks like we have a deal.
I'll let you out.
But we are not yet...
- Now.
Mr. Belikov. the exit is over here.
- Shut up.
Is everything okay?
You have one week
to bid for the rights.
You already know my bid.
I can sign right away. What is it?
You must sign a letter of intent.
Protocol.
Are you lying to me. Belikov?
- Listen.
If you knew how much risk I am taking now.
you wouldn't ask.
Please sign.
Please.
And one more thing.
If you would like to bid
for the worldwide game console rights...
ELORG is open to it.
- What? Those are already from Stein.
No. not true.
I redefined "computer.
Stein wanted arcade rights.
so he signed a new contract.
Why are you helping me. Belikov?
I do what is best for my country.
Go home. Henk Rogers. and come back
with the Nintendo people for a real bid.
Where were you today?
No matter.
We did it. Portable rights.
and they also promise the game console rights.
Get in.
Dzerzhinski Square.
Aren't you traveling by car?
I don't want to be followed.
When I was little. my father was
professor at the University of Moscow.
In 1965. his colleague was jailed because
he sold his book abroad.
Just for that?
Yes.
My father signed a letter of protest.
It was completely justified.
But the state punished him for it.
He was fired and never allowed to
have a good profession....
And that destroyed him. And us. too.
I promised myself that I would
would never do that to my children.
But now they are doing it again.
And this time with me.
Do you know this building?
They should.
They've been watching you the whole time.
Wait. that...
That's the guy from the Central Committee.
One of the most powerful men in the country.
He talks to his agent.
- The KGB?
Is Sasha from the KGB?
But she...
Why?
You are a threat.
You represent everything
that our country has been fighting against for 80 years.
He just discovered
That ELORG promised you Tetris.
The airport. Right now.
It's important.
It's about Tetris. I'm in Korea right now.
Sorry. they're having a meeting.
Can I pass something along?
No. I want to say it myself.
I'll call them when I get home.
Gentlemen. Robert Maxwell.
president of Mirror Group. Pleased to meet you.
Minoru Arakawa. And this is Howard Lincoln.
vice president and legal counsel.
What can we do for you?
I believe I have something you want.
Kevin. are you there?
Yes. good news. gentlemen.
FAX TO: HENK ROGERS
STATUS: COMPLETED
You see. Nikolai Yevgenyevich....
unlike you
I put our country first.
Don't hoist him too heavily.
He still has work to do.
Oh. shit.
Maya?
TETRIS HAS ENDED.
NIKOLAY BELIKOV
Jesus. No.
Oh. no.
WE HAVE PICTURES. STAY AWAY.
Hello?
- Henk. it's Howard Lincoln.
I felt I should
to tell you in person.
Too bad you
couldn't get those Game Boy rights.
We buy them through Mirrorsoft.
You understand that. right?
Hello?
- They're lying. Howard. Everybody lies.
They blackmail me so I keep my mouth shut.
Mirrorsoft doesn't even have
game console rights...
We have a fax from ELORG confirming
that Mirrorsoft has the license.
It's legitimate. Okay?
We'll look for something else again.
Wait.
- Okay? Bye.
Are you ready?
The Maxwells took everything away from me.
- You missed your daughter's concert.
Did you hear what I just said?
We have nothing left.
Nothing.
And you're giving me a hard time
because I missed a concert?
Maya.
You selfish bastard.
Honey?
No worries.
Everything will be fine.
Because otherwise we have no
portable and gaming computer rights.
Then Nintendo sues us...
and we'll lose the company
and probably lose the house.
And I'm trying to hold out hope. Akemi.
Really. But I don't have a plan B.
Please understand that I did this
To build a life for us.
We already had a life.
May I come in?
I have dedicated my life to this country.
To what it stands for.
But ... I can't do it anymore.
This country no longer exists.
We are becoming a nation of thieves.
Tetris goes to Mirrorsoft.
And I will be fired from ELORG
as soon as the contract is signed.
But you can still correct this.
Send this to Henk Rogers.
He knows what to do with it.
Day.
Fire.
What are you doing there?
LETTER OF INTENT
BIDDER PAYS $1.000.000 ...
UPON TIMELY PAYMENT...
Kevin. boy. Okay. gone.
What happens here?
- We are cleaning up a bit.
Those were unnecessary paperwork
for our accountants.
How is it? Congratulations on Tetris.
- We don't have a million. accounting said.
What do you need that for?
- Where... For Tetris.
Boy. we don't have to
pay the Russians.
They get the encyclopedias.
No. no. no.
I had to promise them this.
Listen. I am friends
With Mikhail Gorbachev.
Please stop talking about Gorbachev.
The Soviet Union is on the verge of collapse.
Everyone takes what he can
and Gorbachev can't do anything about it.
Calm down. Kevin. No tantrums.
You're not a child.
So don't treat me like that.
We don't have the money. do we?
- Of course we do.
Just not liquid.
- Okay.
I call the bank for a loan.
- Bad idea.
Jesus. You said everything was good.
- It is.
As soon as we get Tetris
and sign the contract with Nintendo...
everything is good again.
- Okay.
But how do we get Tetris
without payment?
Let me. Good job. kid.
We are suing them. This really can't be done.
- This will not solve the problem.
We will send a warning letter.
- Sir. Excuse me. you may not...
There is a meeting.
- Not anymore.
What is he doing here?
- Reading.
No time for that.
What's that?
- Atari robbed us.
They hacked the NES and are selling
our cassettes. This is their first game.
They're not allowed to.
- They are in America.
No. not true.
- What?
Who is "A?
- Aleksey Pazhitnov.
'Henk. ELORG and Mirrorsoft lie.
No rights given for Tetris.
Come back and bid quickly.
What do you mean. no rights?
That's Mirrorsoft's contract.
A letter of intent that has expired.
So portable...
- Could still be.
And game consoles?
- Also.
Worldwide.
- But then...
I have no rights in Japan.
Stein and Mirrorsoft...
should not have sold them.
Not to them either.
So Atari doesn't have Tetris in America?
- Atari doesn't have Tetris anywhere at all.
How can you be sure
that this Aleksej is not lying?
Because he's the only one
who earns nothing from this.
What do you need.
I want you and your checkbooks
to come with me to Moscow.
And keep it a secret.
MOSKOU
He's here again. And he's not alone.
COMPUTER SCIENCE CENTER MOSCOW
Day.
What are you guys doing? What is this?
Damn.
Stop. What are you doing?
Sasha. what is happening?
You are moving.
Where to go? Why? I live here.
This is my childhood home. This can't be.
What is happening?
Your husband broke the law.
The school called
that the boys had been sent away.
Which one falls faster? Say.
- Neither.
Mom. Dad.
We learn about gravity.
He shows an experiment.
Exactly. An "experiment.
Which one falls faster? Speak up.
- The chair?
This is where gravity gets complicated.
Does the chair fall faster because it is heavy?
- Yes.
But no. Just listen.
It doesn't matter
Whether you're as light as a coin....
Or as heavy as...
a child.
Everything falls just as quickly.
Guys. start packing.
Henk Rogers is back because of you.
Spoiling your life was very easy.
If you cross me one more time.
you're finished.
Just like that Henk.
Mr. Belikov?
Is everything okay?
Apologies for being so late.
So you want to see new games?
No. We came for Tetris.
I have already informed you by fax that
the Tetris negotiations are over.
And I assume that you gave Mirrorsoft
the same deal that you gave to me.
One week to bid
on portable Tetris. Have they?
That's what I thought. Here's our bid.
For game console
and portable rights. worldwide.
We pay in advance. We pay
for all marketing and production.
You get 50 cents per copy sold.
both portable and for game consoles.
One dollar per copy.
Fine. We sign. and then we go.
- No.
I want what is best for our country.
Protecting government property
and decision-making is our job.
He says ELORG
needs time to read the contract.
That's the protocol.
That's right.
Good. Time to go. gentlemen.
I have another appointment.
Five million dollars?
And where is your payment. Mr. Maxwell?
I'm not going to fucking
pay five million dollars.
You don't have to. Just wire
the million your son promised.
Then Tetris is yours.
You have 24 hours.
Why must the Maxwells win?
Is the larger bid
not better for the Soviet Union?
Leave the fate of the Soviet Union
just leave it to me.
Just keep busy with your own work.
Dismissed.
Father.
- Not now.
Nintendo offers Russians five million
for game console and portable rights.
I know. Jo.
- Yeah.
Wait. Did you just say
portable and gaming computer rights?
Yes.
- You can't.
We have all the game console rights.
Purchased from...
- Kevin.
Asshole.
You were in Moscow.
You made a deal without me.
Now ELORG has changed my contract
and I have nothing.
Get security.
- And you. Robert.
I found Tetris.
Where is my compensation?
And thanks to your greed
the Russians put us out of business.
What are you talking about?
A new definition of "computer
in my contract.
Gone gaming computer rights.
so you could take them.
We have
no new gaming contract.
Oh. you dumbass.
Am I the dumbass here?
The spoiled billionaire's son...
Who has never worked a single day.
calls me a dummy?
You arrogant...
Come on. Let go of me.
Let go. Let go of me. Let go. Let go.
You. All of you.
You work for a bunch of thieves.
Thieves.
Jo. get the plane ready.
I'm going to Moscow.
Mr. Maxwell. Welcome to...
You again?
Gentlemen. Welcome.
Excuse me. I've gained some weight and need a
new suit for the ceremony today.
Looks good. Secretary General.
You are a bad liar. my friend.
What can I do for you?
Unfortunately. we don't come for fun.
My son and I are here because there is
an American businessman is in Moscow....
manipulating your bureaucrats for
the rights to a Russian computer game....
for which my company already had a deal.
In fact. he has just offered your people
just offered five million dollars.
And?
And if passed.
it sets a dangerous precedent.
What exactly?
That communism is dead.
So you've come to save my country?
Once you let capitalists in.
you never get rid of them.
And then what are you?
I am your friend. as you said.
We propose a fair exchange
where no money is involved.
You get the publishing rights
to Collier's Encyclopedia....
And we get the game.
An information exchange.
I appreciate your goodwill. Robert.
but my country is defective.
My people want freedom. They want
the right to vote. To control their own destiny.
It was never intended that
Communism to restrict freedom.
But unfortunately greed got in our way.
The world is changing. gentlemen.
and the Soviet Union will not be left behind.
I have to go.
I have to prepare my speech.
Do you want my advice?
With all due respect. we've made it this far
without you. so sod off.
Get me Tetris.
I want to know everything
what you know about that man.
About that foreigner?
No. About that politician.
Comrade Gorbachev.
look how much respect they show you.
Aleksej.
I already said I was coming back.
You shouldn't have come.
- What?
I'm here because of you.
- You had misunderstood me.
You literally wrote:
"Come back and make an offer soon.
I was wrong. You don't deserve it.
Aleksey. what is it? We are friends.
- No.
You used me to get your way.
- That... How can you say that?
I'm doing this for both of us.
- You're doing it for yourself.
I'm not making a dime on this.
- I'll take care of that.
It will...
- Don't promise what you can't give.
I come from a different world.
Go back to yours.
then I'll go back to mine.
Seventy years after our glorious revolution...
we live in a time of change.
But I am confident that the USSR...
Rogers goes to ELORG.
Will come out stronger.
Postage.
Where is Henk Rogers?
- On Bolshaya Ordynka.
Don't let him go to ELORG.
All agents to ELORG.
Repeat: All agents to ELORG.
This is not a counter-offer.
Correct.
This is our original and final bid.
Our rights for your rights.
And we want
the game console rights back. thank you.
What the hell?
- One choice.
A choice between your lousy deal
or our honest deal.
What?
- The relief troops are coming.
Our agreement guarantees us Tetris
if we make a counteroffer.
We did.
- Provided you pay a million.
Drop dead. Sign it.
- Follow the contract.
One more minute.
and then heads will roll.
Mr. Belikov. don't fall for it. All the...
- Father. just pay him now.
You don't have the money.
Therefore. you never pay fees.
What is going on?
- Nothing.
An administration problem
that will be fine.
So you are bankrupt.
Enough.
I can have you all arrested.
Can we just settle this now?
Mr. Belikov.
- You lout.
Way to go.
You are not safe in Moscow. Leave.
Where are they?
- They're gone. idiot.
What?
- With our deal.
Maxwell has no money. The contract
has expired. I had no choice.
I run a billion-dollar company.
Of course I have money.
Just not right now.
- What about my money?
How so 'your money'?
- Yes. how so 'your money'?
You can't be serious.
Did you bribe that jerk?
Behind my back?
Oh. shut up.
I came to your rescue. as usual.
Want to join the big boys?
That's how the world works. So don't whine.
Where's my money. Robert? I gave you
Tetris on a silver platter.
You only had to pay. Where is it?
We work for our country...
- You whore yourself out.
Good.
Give me back my contract
And I'll double your payment.
No.
- I triple it.
I don't trust your money.
I want to be a co-owner of Tetris.
Deal.
Rotten communists.
Get in.
- Come on.
Gone. gone. gone.
How did you know where we were?
- Simple. I thought: what would I never do?
Behind us.
Faster.
Aleksej.
What flights go like this?
We'll get this.
- It doesn't fit.
Do you trust me?
Oh. god.
Come on.
Flight 702 to Zurich is standing by.
Please proceed to the gate.
Next.
What is the next flight?
Send reinforcement.
Come with me.
Flight 802 to Tokyo is standing by.
Please proceed to the gate.
Come on. come on. come on.
They are coming.
Search.
Get out of here.
- No.
Not until you are gone.
- You've done enough.
Get out before they pick you up.
This is not a goodbye. I promise.
You don't like promises.
But I really mean it.
No. No time for American emotions.
Next.
- Go.
Reason for your trip?
- Tourism.
Excuse me.
Take a seat before departure.
On the side.
Where is the flight to Tokyo?
- Gate 6.
But it's closed.
Government Affairs.
- Belts on...
Open up.
Government Affairs.
- Sorry. we have some delay...
Now.
Welcome to Flight 802 to Tokyo.
We are almost ready to depart.
What?
- Buckle up.
Damn.
Wrong plane.
Valentin Igorovich.
By order of the secretary general
you are under arrest
for abuse of power and corruption.
No. What the hell?
Go away.
- You have broken the law.
I am the law.
Let me go.
Are you doing this
because I called you a whore?
Our country is finished. Do you hear me?
It ended.
Finished. It all collapses.
This is flight 702 to Zurich.
We wish you a pleasant flight.
CONGRATULATIONS
PLAYER 1
FINISHED THE GAME
Maya.
If you want to do it for me.
I'd like to hear the concert...
That I shouldn't have missed.
Please.
Okay.
I'm going to get ready.
I had promised something.
That didn't go as I hoped.
But now I do.
BULLET-PROOF SOFTWARE
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS
This is going to be an exciting Christmas...
With a brand new gift under the tree.
The Game Boy.
There are demonstrations all over
the Soviet Union are demonstrating.
Nintendo
has already sold out twice in Japan.
And that seems to be happening in America as well....
where the proceeds for the holidays
is already over $110 million.
And the demand
does not seem to be decreasing by a long shot.
All over Eastern Europe
the borders are opening up.
This is due in part to Tetris....
the new top game
that the whole family wants to play.
Gorbachev has resigned.
The red flag hangs at half-mast in the Kremlin.
Good news or bad news?
I think both.
A package for you. From Henk.
ALEKSEY PAZHITNOV
FROM: MOSCOW
TO: SAN FRANCISCO
five minutes. Mom needs "the bed.
There they are.
Welcome to your new home.
Is this a better time
for American emotions?
Henk and Aleksej later founded
The Tetris Company.
Robert Stein has continued
selling licenses.
He's still upset
that he missed out on Tetris.
Robert Maxwell stole 900 million
From corporate pension fund...
and had debts of more than five billion.
which caused his media empire to collapse.
After Robert Maxwell's unexplained death
Kevin Maxwell was arrested
in connection with
his father's pension robbery and bankruptcy.
He was later tried for fraud .
but was acquitted.
In 2014. Henk appointed his daughter Maya
appointed as the new director of Tetris.
With half a billion copies sold
it is one of the most popular games ever.
The TV doesn't work.
Neither does the video player.
I have already read everything.
After this we will go to the Moscow Go club.
Your name is Alla?
Alla takes us
to the Russian Go association.
And she also found ELORG for us.
This is Aleksey Pazhitnov.
The creator of Tetris.
- Well. sort of.
I play Tetris with my friends.
Okay.
Translation: Lorien Franssen